README.md, before:

# Open.Text

A set of useful extensions for working with strings, string-segments, spans, enums, and value formatting.

[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Open.Text.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Open.Text/)

## Features

* Avoids allocation wherever possible.
* v3.x is a major overhaul with much improved methods and expanded tests and coverage.
* v4.x favored use of `Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives.StringSegments` for string manipulation.

---

### Regex Extensions

```cs
ReadOnlySpan<char> Capture.AsSpan()
Enumerable<StringSegment> Regex.AsSegments(string input)
string GroupCollection.GetValue(string groupName)
ReadOnlySpan<char> GroupCollection.GetValueSpan(string groupName)
IEnumerable<StringSegment> string.Split(Regex pattern)
```

---

### String vs Span Equality

Optimized `.Equals(...)` extension methods for comparing spans and strings.

---

### String & Span Splitting

#### `SplitToEnumerable`

Returns each string segment of the split through an enumerable instead of all at once in an array.

#### `SplitAsMemory`

Produces an enumerable where each segment is yielded as a `ReadOnlyMemory<char>`.

#### `SplitAsSegment`

Produces an enumerable where each segment is yielded as a `StringSegment`.


---

### Trimming

#### `TrimStartPattern` & `TrimEndPattern`

Similar to their character trimming counterparts, these methods can trim sequences of characters or regular expression patterns.

---

### `StringBuilder` Extensions

Extensions for:

* adding segments with separators.
* adding spans without creating a string first.
* converting enumerables to a `StringBuilder`.

---
### `StringSegment` Extensions

Extensions for:

* `.Trim(char)` and `.Trim(ReadOnlySpan<char>)`.
* finding and pivoting from sequences without allocation.

---

### `StringComparable` & `SpanComparable` Extensions

```cs
if(myString.AsCaseInsensitive()=="HELLO!") { }
```

instead of

```cs
if(myString.Equals("HELLO!", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)) { }
```
---

### `EnumValue<TEnum>` & `EnumValueIgnoreCase<TEnum>`

Implicit conversion makes it easy.  Optimized methods make it fast.

Consider the following:

```cs
enum Greek { Alpha, Beta, Gamma }

void DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek value) { }

DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek.Alpha);
```

It's nice that `Greek` is an enum because it won't be null, and it has to be one of the values.
But what if you want to write a single function that will take an `Greek` or a string?
This gets problematic as the string value has to be parsed and you'll likely need an overload.

`EnumValue<TEnum>` solves this problem:

```cs
enum Greek { Alpha, Beta, Gamma }

void DoSomethingWithGreek(EnumValue<Greek> value) { }

// Both work fine.
DoSomethingWithGreek("Alpha");
DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek.Alpha);

// Throws an ArgumentException:
DoSomethingWithGreek("Theta");
```

The implicit conversion between a `string` and `EnumValue<TEnum>` make this possible.

If you need to allow for case-insensitive comparison then simply use `EnumValueCaseIgnored<TEnum>` instead.

The performance is outstanding as it uses the length of the names to build a tree in order to parse values and uses an expression tree instead of calling `.ToString()` on the value.

---

### And more ...

#### `string.Supplant(...)`

An alternative to String.Format that takes an array of values.

#### `string.ReplaceWhiteSpace(...)`

A shortcut for replacing whitespace with a Regex.

#### `string.ToMetricString(...)`

Returns an abbreviated metric representation of a number.

#### `ToByteString(...)`

Returns an abbreviated metric representation of a quantity of bytes.

#### `ToPercentString(...)`

Shortcut for formating to a percent.

#### `ToNullIfWhiteSpace()`

Allows for simple null operators if a string is empty or whitespace.

Commit message:

Add Roslyn analyzers for string optimization patterns
- Implemented 8 diagnostic rules (OPENTXT001-008) for detecting inefficient string patterns
- Created analyzers for: Substring, Split, string concatenation, IndexOf+Substring, Trim+Equals
- Added code fix provider for Split patterns
- Comprehensive test suite with smart detection tests to prevent false positives
- Extensive documentation: README, EXAMPLES, CONTRIBUTING, TESTING_STRATEGY, QUICK_REFERENCE
- Integrated into solution with proper NuGet package configuration
- Analyzers use semantic analysis for type safety and context-aware suggestions

README.md, after:

# Open.Text

A set of useful extensions for working with strings, string-segments, spans, enums, and value formatting.

[![NuGet](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Open.Text.svg)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Open.Text/)

## Features

* Avoids allocation wherever possible.
* v3.x is a major overhaul with much improved methods and expanded tests and coverage.
* v4.x favored use of `Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives.StringSegments` for string manipulation.
* **NEW:** Roslyn analyzers to detect inefficient string patterns and suggest modern alternatives!

---

## 🔍 Roslyn Analyzers

Open.Text now includes **Roslyn analyzers** that help you write more efficient code by detecting common string manipulation anti-patterns and suggesting better alternatives using spans and string segments.

### Installation

```bash
dotnet add package Open.Text.Analyzers
```

### What it does

The analyzers detect patterns like:
- `.Substring()` → suggests `.AsSpan()` or span slicing
- `.Split()` → suggests `.SplitAsSegments()` for zero allocations
- `.Split()[0]` → suggests `.FirstSplit()` to avoid array allocation
- String concatenation in loops → suggests `StringBuilder`
- `.Trim().Equals()` → suggests `.TrimEquals()` to avoid intermediate string

See the [Analyzers README](Analyzers/README.md) for complete documentation.

---

### Regex Extensions

```cs
ReadOnlySpan<char> Capture.AsSpan()
Enumerable<StringSegment> Regex.AsSegments(string input)
string GroupCollection.GetValue(string groupName)
ReadOnlySpan<char> GroupCollection.GetValueSpan(string groupName)
IEnumerable<StringSegment> string.Split(Regex pattern)
```

---

### String vs Span Equality

Optimized `.Equals(...)` extension methods for comparing spans and strings.

---

### String & Span Splitting

#### `SplitToEnumerable`

Returns each string segment of the split through an enumerable instead of all at once in an array.

#### `SplitAsMemory`

Produces an enumerable where each segment is yielded as a `ReadOnlyMemory<char>`.

#### `SplitAsSegment`

Produces an enumerable where each segment is yielded as a `StringSegment`.


---

### Trimming

#### `TrimStartPattern` & `TrimEndPattern`

Similar to their character trimming counterparts, these methods can trim sequences of characters or regular expression patterns.

---

### `StringBuilder` Extensions

Extensions for:

* adding segments with separators.
* adding spans without creating a string first.
* converting enumerables to a `StringBuilder`.

---
### `StringSegment` Extensions

Extensions for:

* `.Trim(char)` and `.Trim(ReadOnlySpan<char>)`.
* finding and pivoting from sequences without allocation.

---

### `StringComparable` & `SpanComparable` Extensions

```cs
if(myString.AsCaseInsensitive()=="HELLO!") { }
```

instead of

```cs
if(myString.Equals("HELLO!", StringComparison.OrdinalIgnoreCase)) { }
```
---

### `EnumValue<TEnum>` & `EnumValueIgnoreCase<TEnum>`

Implicit conversion makes it easy.  Optimized methods make it fast.

Consider the following:

```cs
enum Greek { Alpha, Beta, Gamma }

void DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek value) { }

DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek.Alpha);
```

It's nice that `Greek` is an enum because it won't be null, and it has to be one of the values.
But what if you want to write a single function that will take an `Greek` or a string?
This gets problematic as the string value has to be parsed and you'll likely need an overload.

`EnumValue<TEnum>` solves this problem:

```cs
enum Greek { Alpha, Beta, Gamma }

void DoSomethingWithGreek(EnumValue<Greek> value) { }

// Both work fine.
DoSomethingWithGreek("Alpha");
DoSomethingWithGreek(Greek.Alpha);

// Throws an ArgumentException:
DoSomethingWithGreek("Theta");
```

The implicit conversion between a `string` and `EnumValue<TEnum>` make this possible.

If you need to allow for case-insensitive comparison then simply use `EnumValueCaseIgnored<TEnum>` instead.

The performance is outstanding as it uses the length of the names to build a tree in order to parse values and uses an expression tree instead of calling `.ToString()` on the value.

---

### And more ...

#### `string.Supplant(...)`

An alternative to String.Format that takes an array of values.

#### `string.ReplaceWhiteSpace(...)`

A shortcut for replacing whitespace with a Regex.

#### `string.ToMetricString(...)`

Returns an abbreviated metric representation of a number.

#### `ToByteString(...)`

Returns an abbreviated metric representation of a quantity of bytes.

#### `ToPercentString(...)`

Shortcut for formating to a percent.

#### `ToNullIfWhiteSpace()`

Allows for simple null operators if a string is empty or whitespace.
